Hello Ms. Yen and everyone
in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club. Could you please tell
me what "fate" means and why
life brings two strangers
together but prevents them from being
together, causing them great sadness and suffering?
Thank you very much, Ms. Yen and everyone.
Yes, I respectfully invite you all. To
all my friends, the pursuit of happiness is
essential for every person. When
faced with difficulties,
people always look for a
solution, but sometimes
they can't find it on their own
because they are very confused.
They may seek advice from many sources, and only then
can they find the
right path to liberation.
Young people often face
such dilemmas. So today, I
will answer your question about the word "fate."
It's the kind of fate that people use to
describe
good things, for example, having a
lucky fate or that you and I are
truly destined to be together.  In
Buddhism, the concept of "karma" or "destiny" is used to describe good things. However, in
Buddhism, the concept of "karma" is different. In Buddhism, it
encompasses all the elements that bring about
an event or situation. Only when all the necessary
conditions are met can things be
complete. For example, a jackfruit tree has
the conditions of the seed, the soil, the
water, and many
other factors. The seed
is the
cause, but in reality, this cause is
only one of countless
conditions that create a jackfruit tree and a
jackfruit. So, in the
Buddhist concept of "karma," it encompasses all
conditions. Therefore, your question
adds: why
can two strangers meet
but not be
together, causing them suffering? Two
strangers meeting again must also
have certain conditions.  Countless karmic connections from past lives exist, and when
these two meet but cannot be
together, they suffer.
This suffering is also due to countless karmic connections
from past lives that lead to this situation.
So, the karmic connection
from past lives that allows them to meet
again is a joyful one. Because when they
meet, they are very happy. Even
this joyful connection already contains
the karmic connection from past lives, which was for the
separation and the suffering.
That's why it's called a
complete convergence of karmic connections, causing them to meet
happily and then part sadly. The Buddha
also taught that this world is a realm of
suffering, and there
are eight kinds of suffering, including the suffering of love and hatred.
This means two people love each other very much, but
for some reason, as
young people often say, their families don't
allow it, or they consult fortune tellers who say their ages are
n't
compatible. Many karmic connections cause them
to separate, or it could be just a trivial argument that they
can apologize for.  Because of
pride and self-respect, you can't
apologize to each other, causing you to drift
apart. This separation
is a negative karma that causes
suffering. The underlying cause of
meeting and falling in love
already contains this negative karma. For example,
there are stories where
people have grudges
from a previous life, and they
swear, "I will meet
you again, I will make you suffer."
When they meet again, they naturally feel
happy; otherwise, they would
n't meet.
This single statement,
stemming from dissatisfaction and
unresolved hatred, leads to them
meeting again in the next life, seemingly happy,
but then one of them is betrayed,
deceived, or something
else causes the other to suffer, just
like the grudge from a
previous life. That's why the Buddha taught that if there is a
grudge, it should be resolved, not perpetuated.
That means we should just stir-fry the beef; we shouldn't make
vows that we'll suffer in the next life.
So, in
this karmic connection, there are already pre-existing karmic connections for future
lives. That's what's
called karmic connections that bring people together, make them fall in
love, and then separate. Knowing
that the karmic connection from their
previous life wasn't a good one, it
was an
unfavorable connection that led to
this situation,
you should observe and don't
cling to each other anymore. Go back to your
present life, you
can find someone else,
love someone else, and marry someone else,
because this karmic connection is
already a bad one. But there are also
people who, if they understand this
karmic connection in this present life, when they
love someone, they will practice spiritual cultivation.
They cultivate with a
sincere and honest heart in all their
actions and words, and
that karmic connection will shift. If
these two people love each other, the
karmic connection from their previous life has already shifted, and they
will...  They can be happy together, but only if
both of them know how to practice.
Yes, ma'am. Seeing Huy Pham's face, I
thank you, ma'am. Because, in addition to
the question he asked, you also answered
and advised him on some
points about practice to
resolve such problems. And
next, another person is also
facing a very difficult problem. I'll keep their
name anonymous. Their
question is: "I'm 37 years old. I'm
married, but my husband cheated on me and left
me. After that, I met someone else who is married. We've been together for
years, and we meet three times a month.
Even though I know he's married, I still
love him. I've wanted to leave him many times, but I ca
n't because I love him so much. I've
cried a lot, ma'am. Why is my fate
so miserable? Please help me." Yes, ma'am.
This is a matter of adultery.
In Buddhism, adultery
brings suffering,
even in the present life.  It's also
very awkward, very difficult. You want to
escape but can't. Dear
friends, the need of every
human being is the need to confide. As human beings,
everyone wants to confide; only
when can we truly let go of this need?
For those who practice spiritual cultivation, they see the
faults, suffering, and pain as being within their own hearts,
and
they live with their own hearts, eliminating the
afflictions within themselves. Only those who practice spiritual
cultivation can be truly at peace, standing alone and
liberating themselves. All other beings who
haven't reached that level of practice,
when faced with the burdens and suffering
in their hearts, always need to
share. So, this person, because
her husband left her, she feels very lost and alone. A person
betrayed by their husband who left them
for another woman has many things to confide in,
but these
are not
simply confessions; they lack
things they've become
accustomed to, such as hugs,
love, empathy, and affection.
They completely lose that, and when
someone else gives them
love, affection, empathy, caresses,
and many other feelings
in a male-female relationship, then
you're like a drowning person
grasping at a lifeline.
You cling tightly to
that lifeline and entrust all your feelings,
your heart, and everything
you desire to that person.
That's what gives rise to
love. And because you expect so
much from this person, you feel
so much love that you can't live without them, you ca
n't
live a life without them.
Because of this, you
forget, you forget,
or you don't recognize the
truth about the man.
That man
will tell you that
he only has you, that he loves you the most, that
this is our child. But in
reality, you won't give him that...  The
man's feelings for his wife are so strong that
she doesn't realize the truth about what the
man is doing.
He's simply being pushed around by circumstances,
or perhaps he's too greedy,
taking both sides without letting go of either. When
we study karma,
we say that a greedy person
cannot bring happiness to themselves, and a
person with a defiled heart cannot bring
happiness to anyone. That's
why she's truly
suffering and torn apart. And if
you don't know anything about
Buddhism, you might sometimes do
evil things. For example, during Tet (Vietnamese New Year), you might make him feel
responsible
for her, forcing him to stand
in the middle, making him very uncomfortable, torn between
sides. He doesn't get
a moment's peace. So, while they
think they love each other, they are actually
causing
each other suffering. That's the karmic retribution in this life.  Is
this truly
true love? It's not
true love; it's simply that
we're ignorant, blinded by
greed, and causing
suffering to each other. As for my
advice, I'd like to say: Learn from
Buddhist teachings, contemplate karma,
find friends in Buddhism to
share with, and stand firm on your own two feet. Then
you will bring happiness to yourself and
not cause suffering to anyone or
yourself.
And when you practice like that, if you still
have desires and aspirations for a family life,
then your karma will
shift, and you will meet
another man who has the necessary conditions. For
example, he's already divorced, and he
lives a virtuous and good life. If you can be
together, then the karma will be preserved for
both of you. Yes, I hope that through
your sharing, the
woman who just asked the question will find a
way to overcome these
difficult stages
and find a
truly suitable man.